---
title: Internationalisation
editLink: false
outline: deep
---

# Internationalisation

This page explains how to make your code ready for translators to create translation files in their language. If you need to learn the basics on translating, also check [languages guide](/guide/extend/languages).

## i18n?!

`i18n` is a abbreviation for internationalization, or the process of making code ready for translation. It is called "i18n" because there are 18 letters between the i and the n. In our YOURLS case, it means marking strings which should be translated in a special way.

## Hardcoded vs Translatable

The regular way of echoing or returning strings, in PHP, would be for instance:
```php
echo "This is a message.";
return "another string";
```
In this example, the strings are _hardcoded_ so you can't change them unless you edit the PHP file. Not very practical.

YOURLS uses a set of functions to indicate that strings should be translated if a translation file is available.

## Marking strings for translation

The principle is the following:
`yourls_i18n_function( $string, $textdomain )`

where
* `yourls_i18n_function` will be one i18n functions, see below
* `$string` is the string to translate
* `$textdomain` is a unique identifier, the "text domain", you'll use across your project. Make sure it is a unique name, based on your plugin name for instance.

The above example would become:

```php
// echo a string
yourls_e( 'This is a message', 'john-plugin' );

// return a string
$message = yourls__( 'another string', 'john-plugin' );
```

This will make 2 things happen:

1. i18n functions return translated string if a translation file is found, or the original string otherwise.
1. these functions also mark the strings as translatable: a utility like Poedit (see below) can generate a PO or POT file with these strings, so that translators can make their translation file.

## Loading your text domain

Pick a unique name, preferably related to the project name. For instance if you're coding a plugin named `Funny Redirection`, the domain could be `funny-redirection`.

Your code must have the following function call:
```php
yourls_load_custom_textdomain( $domain, $path_to_translation_files );
```

For instance in your plugin that would be:
```php
// Trigger when all plugins are loaded
yourls_add_action( 'plugins_loaded', 'funny_redirection_load_textdomain' );

// load custom text domain
function funny_redirection_load_textdomain() {
    yourls_load_custom_textdomain( 'funny-redirection', dirname( __FILE__ ) . '/translations' );
}
```

This would tell YOURLS to look for translation files inside the `translations` directory of your plugin folder.

The translation file names must follow the following format: `domain dash locale`, eg `funny_redirection-pt_BR.mo`

## i18n functions

YOURLS i18n functions are located in `includes/functions-i18n.php`. The main functions are:

* `yourls__( $string, $domain )`
Return a translated string

* `yourls_e( $string, $domain )`
Echo a translated string

* `yourls_n( $single, $plural, $number, $domain )`
Return the plural or single form based on the amount. Example:
`$msg = yourls_n( '1 tooth', '%s teeth', $number, 'funny-redirection' );`

Escaping functions:

* `yourls_esc_html__( $string, $domain )`
Retrieves the translation of $string and escapes it for safe use in HTML output

* `yourls_esc_attr__( $string, $domain )`
Return a translated string, escaped for a use in an attribute (like `title=""`)

There are also the corresponding `xxxx_e()` function to echo instead of return.

There are more complex functions you probably won't need for basic stuff, but reading the source of `includes/functions-i18n.php` will make your day a whole lot brighter anyway :)

## Placeholders

Translatable strings cannot contain dynamic content. For instance,
* while this will work: `echo "We have $count short URL";`
* this won't: `yourls_e( "We have $count short URL", "myplugin" );`

During the parsing of your code to generate PO files, the PO generator will mark `"We have $count short URL"` as translatable. However in the application `yourls_e()` will be called with an argument like `"We have 1337 short URL"`: YOURLS won't find a suitable translation of this string and will return it untranslated.

The solution is to use functions [`printf()`](http://php.net/printf) (to echo) and [`sprintf()`](http://php.net/sprintf) (to return).

Here is what the right solution of the short URL count problem will look like:
```php
printf( yourls__( "We have %s short URL", "myplugin" ), $count );
```

## Generate a POT file

Once all your code is ready for translation, generate a POT file. You'll need to configure your software (eg [PoEdit](http://www.poedit.net/)) with these strings, which are the i18n functions used in YOURLS:

* `yourls__`
* `yourls_e`
* `yourls_s`
* `yourls_se`
* `yourls_esc_attr__`
* `yourls_esc_html__`
* `yourls_x`
* `yourls_ex`
* `yourls_esc_attr_x`
* `yourls_esc_html_x`
* `yourls_n:1,2`
* `yourls_nx:1,2`
* `yourls_n_noop:1,2`
* `yourls_nx_noop:1,2`

[[images/i18n_keywords.png]]

Configure also the parser to include comments for translators. In PoEdit: File, Preferences, Parsers, PHP: edit and in the `Parser command` add parameter `--add-comments=/`

You'll find plenty of guides on the net to show you how to use PoEdit. Also check the official [YOURLS.pot](https://github.com/YOURLS/YOURLS.pot)

## Get a few translators to work!

Your work is now ready to be translated. Ask a few Japanese / Brazilian / Czech friends to create translation files, and ship your code with all these translation files :)
