---
title: YOURLS 1.10.3
authors:
  - dgw
tags:
  - release
---

We've just released [YOURLS 1.10.3][the release page]!

[the release page]: https://github.com/YOURLS/YOURLS/releases/tag/1.10.3

<!--truncate-->

## What's new?

Admin area bug fixes, accessibility improvements, and more!

- Public statistics pages hide referrers
- The list of shorturls has been improved for screen-reader users
- Searches are faster when filtering by long URLs
- Filtering for "more than 0 clicks" is fixed
- Automated tests now run on PHP 8.5 & 8.6

We're especially grateful to @[lilmike](https://github.com/lilmike) for not only flagging accessibility, but also helping develop and test patches to make the admin panel better for low-vision users.
To us, this is a perfect example of why open-source rocks!

Finally, all core code using the database now passes a "context" value indicating whether it is performing a "read" or "write" operation.
Most users won't need to worry about this, but high-availability plugin developers will be able to more intelligently route requests.

These are just the highlights; see [the release page][] or our full [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/YOURLS/YOURLS/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) for more details.

## How to update?

It's the typical case of "upload files over older ones and forget", which as always doesn't affect your plugins and user config.

As always, if it's been a while since your last DB backup, we suggest you do that **before** updating, since the new version will ask your database to change some stuff.

## Spread the word!

Help us make YOURLS bigger!
You can do your part with tweeting about this release to let your friends know about it, and with [giving us a star on GitHub](https://github.com/YOURLS/YOURLS) 😉
Thank you all!
